---
layout: post
title:  "ACM 2019 and more DP!"
date:   2018-12-08 22:20:11
categories: [ blog , dp]
---

<style>
    table,tr,td,th{
        border:1px solid black;
        margin: auto;
        padding:3px;
        text-align:center;
    }
</style>

I really wasn't going to write this blog post until tomorrow but I found some really amazing problems to discuss, so lets get onto it!!

First of all, I lot count of HDOC. If you have been following my blog, you would know how lazy I am in correcting typos and also about Hundred days of Code (HDOC) plan that I had made. It was a total flop. Nevertheless a lot of stuff happened in these two months and the most important ones among the are... wait for it... <b>I cleared ACM ICPC online!</b> 

yup, you read that right :'). Even though my ratings only fell during this time, my speed remarkably improved leading me to make the 6th fastest submission for the first problem under nine minutes giving us a remarkable time advantage. And hence we are through, to the regionals which is about 30 days away.

My semesters exams finally got over and am back home now. Hence am going to start with the topic am not so confident about, DP.

So here is the method I wish for you to follow. When I metion the name of any question, read it first and try solving it because the ones coming up next definitely include the answer and method of solving the problems.

Later this day I found that the codeforces website has a <a href="https://codeforces.com/problemset/standings" target="_blank">standings page</a> based on the number of problems solved. My current rank was 20329 at this moment so I kinda planned to keep track of where this number went by the end of ACM ICPC this month in about 20 days. I have solved 149 problems till now and I know it shall barely reach 200 by this time but lets see.

<b>Problem 1</b>  118D Caesar's Legions
There are n1 foot soldiers and n2 horsemen and we have to arrange them in a linear fashion such that there are no k1,k2 of each of them respectively continuos. 
First of all if the constraints are observed, we notice that n1,n2<100 and k1,k2<10 so we can easily compute a dp of 4 states and evaluvate everything once and memotizing at each step. So in total we do a n1*n2*k1*k2<10<sup>6</sup> which can be comfortable done under 0.1s.

<b>Problem 2</b> 839C Journey
This is again a simple nearly linear dp on graphs. If we imagine the given case to be that of a tree, then every leaf node is the one in which the journey can possible end because of the way that the horse travels. And the possible length of the journey is <i>1 + length of journey till previous city</i>. The answer is of course the sum of these divided by the total number of leaf nodes.

<b>Problem 3</b> Three displays
This is somewhat similar to problem 1 and barely manages to pass the time limit, but the 3D dp on the states of current index, last chosen index and number of choices left does a pretty neat trick. There is also a two pointer solution which can solve this in n<sup>2,</sup> but since this is all about DP practice, I resort to memotization.

Thats the end of the problems for the day because am really tired for some reason. Nevertheless, solving three problems got me up to a rank of 19936, gained 300 :P. 


