---
layout: post
title:  "Half way through Midsems (Random) [Time Waste]"
date:   2018-09-21 11:08:11
categories: [ blog ]
---

<style>
    table,tr,td,th{
        border:1px solid black;
        margin: auto;
        padding:3px;
        text-align:center;
    }
</style>

<i style="font-size:8px;">The [TIME WASTE] tag indicates that you shall be wasting your time reading this post. Inconvieeennnce is not regretttteeed :p </i>
I hadn't been coding since a long time now. Maybe three weeks or something? Yeah, its because of my exams that had crept in and I couldn't cope up with doing CP and Acads at the same time. So, I had decided to give HDOC a break. If I hadn't mentioned this already in my previous blog posts, I have also dwelled into Image processing as it is included in my course work this semester and also that I messed up pretty bad in its corresponding exam three days back. But I do hope to recover by end semester exams which carry a bit more weightage to nullify all the screw ups that I did. 

Back to point, the main point of this course was to say my future plans about HDOC, probably there are only 40 days or something left from the time I started it (I lost count :P)? Well so, I am not including this midsem break in the days count to get myself a bit of breathing space. Also since there is almost just about a month for ACMs I shall be increasing the amount of time I spend on CP after wednesday when my exams finally get over. My ACM team consists of one my fellow university friend who happens to be my first facebook friend after I entered campus. It sure has been a long way!

This post, also includes me going to talk about what am going to do for the rest of my day since I figured out that the day hasn't been <u>completely wasted</u> <b>YET</b>.
I have about 9 lectures to complete, real boring ones on Aerodynamics which I shall be doing till 21 o' clock. And if you guys didnot know this, I am puursuing a major in Aerospace Engineering. So after that I shall be going through the book of some fox guy on fluid dynamics because I heard that the questions and concepts there are good. Thats the end of this 5 minutes of the boring part of your life guys... have an amazing day!.