---
layout: post
title:  "Day 5: Lazy writing ahead! [HDOC]"
date:   2018-07-26 22:20:11
categories: [ blog , hdoc , random]
---

<style>
    table,tr,td,th{
        border:1px solid black;
        margin: auto;
        padding:3px;
        text-align:center;
    }
</style>

Today is gonna be problems again. Am not really sure if I shall be learning any new concept but least assured I shall solve a few problems, atleast more than yesterday.

I also wanted to experiment with how to Sphere Engine Plugin works for Websites, but then found it to be too much work and I just skipped it.

The First probem I solved was ABSYS from SPOJ which can be classified as a beginner level problem as all you had to do was parse strings to integers and do a required summation or subtraction as required.
The Second problem Stamps also from SPOJ was also an beginner level problem with just sorting to get it done.

The third problem was Street Parade from SPOJ. A question based on stacks, it was pretty straight forward and could be handled easily if all the cases were kept at check.  I would rate it easy but it was honestly one beautiful problem.

That was all I did today, yes. I waste a lot of time. But you mgiht have also noticed that there was a lot of lazy writing involved because of on off plans for a movie that were made along ith this. :P

Ultimately, we never went. <b>I promise that my subsequent blog posts shall be a more detailed one and not as boring as this one. Thanks for sticking along though!</b>

<table>
<tr>
<th> Problems Solved </th><th> Beginnerer </th><th> Easy </th><th> Medium </th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td><td>2</td><td>1</td><td>-</td>
</tr>
</table>
